README.md, before:

# AzureADLicensing

PowerShell Cmdlets to manage Azure AD Group based licensing.

[![PSGallery Version](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/v/AzureADLicensing.svg?style=flat-square&label=PSGallery%20Version)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/AzureADLicensing) [![PSGallery Downloads](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/dt/AzureADLicensing?style=flat-square&label=PSGallery%20Downloads)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/AzureADLicensing)

## Using the module

1. Install the module: ```Install-Module -Name AzureADLicensing -AllowClobber```
2. If you hav the deprecated AzureRM module installed, uninstall it first ```Uninstall-AzureRm```
3. Authenticate to Azure: ```Connect-AzAccount```

## Available commands

Get available licenses and services:

<pre>
Get-AADLicenseSku
</pre>

Get included service plans for a license:

<pre>
$m365= Get-AADLicenseSku | Where-Object {$_.name -match "Microsoft 365 E5"}
$m365.serviceStatuses.servicePlan
</pre>

Add new license assignment:

<pre>
Add-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId "a5e95316-1c03-44d7-afac-efd0e788122c" -accountSkuId "nicolasuter:FLOW_FREE"
</pre>

Add license assignmnet with disabled plan:

<pre>Add-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId 0a918505-d0d5-4078-9891-0e8bec67cb65 -accountSkuId "nicolasuter:SPE_E5" -disabledServicePlans @("MYANALYTICS_P2")</pre>

Update license assignment:

<pre>Update-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId "a5e95316-1c03-44d7-afac-efd0e788122c" -accountSkuId "nicolasuter:FLOW_FREE"</pre>

Remove license assignment:

<pre>Remove-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId "a5e95316-1c03-44d7-afac-efd0e788122c" -accountSkuId "nicolasuter:FLOW_FREE"</pre>

Get license assignments for a specific group:

<pre>
Get-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId "a5e95316-1c03-44d7-afac-efd0e788122c"
</pre>

Get all group based licensing assignments:

<pre>
Get-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -All
</pre>

Commit message:

rework module, add -WhatIf support and pipeline

README.md, after:

# AzureADLicensing

PowerShell Cmdlets to manage Azure AD Group based licensing.

[![PowerShell Gallery Version](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/v/AzureADLicensing?label=PS%20Gallery%20Version&style=flat-square)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/AzureADLicensing) [![PowerShell Gallery](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/dt/AzureADLicensing?label=PS%20Gallery%20downloads&style=flat-square)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/AzureADLicensing) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nicolonsky/AzureADLicensing?style=flat-square)

## Using the module

1. Install the module: ```Install-Module -Name AzureADLicensing -AllowClobber```
2. If you have the deprecated AzureRM module installed, uninstall it first ```Uninstall-AzureRm```
3. Authenticate to your Azure tenant: ```Connect-AzAccount```
    1. Feel free to use a service principal for unattended authentication and automation

## Available commands

All critical commands which modify settings support the `-WhatIf` parameter to predict changes.

Get available licenses and services:

<pre>
Get-AADLicenseSku
</pre>

Get included service plans for a license:

<pre>
$m365= Get-AADLicenseSku | Where-Object {$_.name -match "Microsoft 365 E5"}
$m365.serviceStatuses.servicePlan
</pre>

Add new license assignment:

<pre>
Add-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId "a5e95316-1c03-44d7-afac-efd0e788122c" -accountSkuId "nicolasuter:FLOW_FREE"
</pre>

Add license assignmnet with disabled plan:

<pre>Add-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId 0a918505-d0d5-4078-9891-0e8bec67cb65 -accountSkuId "nicolasuter:SPE_E5" -disabledServicePlans @("MYANALYTICS_P2")</pre>

Update license assignment:

<pre>Update-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId "a5e95316-1c03-44d7-afac-efd0e788122c" -accountSkuId "nicolasuter:FLOW_FREE"</pre>

Remove license assignment:

<pre>Remove-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId "a5e95316-1c03-44d7-afac-efd0e788122c" -accountSkuId "nicolasuter:FLOW_FREE"</pre>

Get license assignments for a specific group:

<pre>
Get-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -groupId "a5e95316-1c03-44d7-afac-efd0e788122c"
</pre>

Get all group based licensing assignments:

<pre>
Get-AADGroupLicenseAssignment -All
</pre>
